# GENOMICS ANALYSIS OF MATERNAL EXOMES REVEALS NEW CANDIDATE GENES AND PATHWAYS FOR THE DIAGNOSIS AND PREDICTION OF RECURRENT PREIMPLANTATION EMBRYO ARREST IN IVF CYCLES
Semra Kahraman, MD, Fulya Gokdagli Sagir, MD, Beril Yuksel, MD, Murat Cetinkaya, M.D., PhD, Meral Gavaz, MSc, Burcu Kara, BSc, Mesut Yesil, MSc, Gunkut Akar, MSc
Silvia Buonaiuto, BSc, Gianluca Damaggio, MS, Marco Fabiani, PhD, Adriano De Marino, PhD, Vincenza Colonna, PhD, Carlos Simon Prof, MD, Antonio Capalbo, PhD, Semra Kahraman, MD, Fulya Gokdagli Sagir, MD
Beril Yuksel, MD, Vincenza Colonna, PhD, Carlos Simon Prof, MD, Antonio Capalbo, PhD

1. Istanbul Memorial Sisli Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey;
2. Institute of Genetics and Biophysics,National Research Council (CNR), Naples, Italy; 
3. Igenomix, Marostica,Italy; 
4. Igenomix Foundation, Valencia, Spain.


OBJECTIVE: The aim of our study was to discover whether genomic analysis of maternal exomes is capable of identifying new target genes to improve
infertility diagnosis in cases with recurrent preimplantation developmental
embryo arrest.
DESIGN: Genetic analysis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was conducted at Istanbul Memorial Hospital ART and Reproductive Genetics Unit between December 2018-November 2019 in cooperation with Igenomix, Italy. Ten women, five
with consanguinity history, four being the offspring of first-cousin marriage with a history of recurrent embryo developmental failure in multiple IVF cycles were recruited. WES was performed (Agilent SureSelect whole-exome
capture and Illumina sequencing technology). Variant calling against the reference genome GRCh38 was done using Freebayes and identified on average 436k high quality variants per samples. According to Ensembl classification 2.8% are expected to have high (0.25%) or moderate (2.56%)
disruptive impact in the gene product. Variants were filtered on a per-individual base using a number of criteria (frequency <0.05% in the 1000 Genomes and gnomeAD; severity as estimated by Ensembl; the functional effect using
the CADD score above the 90 percentile and variants location in genes highly intolerant to loss of function, pLI>0.9. Finally variants retained had to be in genes relevant to the early embryonic development (3600 gene list). To control for false positives, we run the same filtering on 100 replicates of 10
random samples from the publicly available Human Genome Diversity Project data set, and we filtered out variants falling in genes showing up in 50% of the hundred replicates, controlling for random occurrence of hits.

RESULTS: Overall, 1700 unique variants in 1281 unique genes were retained after filtering, most involved in lethal embryonic pathways. Thirtyone unique retained variants have high impact and among them sixteen are
splice variants and nine are stop-gains. Each sample carries on average 185.9 (10.0 s.d.) potentially detrimental variants. Of particular relevance two individuals had pathogenic variants in SPAG5, an essential component of the mitotic spindle required for normal chromosome segregation and progression into anaphase. Furthermore, two individual showed pathogenetic variants in the zinc finger protein 91 (ZFP91). The knockdown of ZFP91 reduces FOXA1 polyubiquitination and cellular progression in embryonic and
cancer cells. Finally, three samples share the G allele of the rs1217009744 variants in homozygosis in the SHANK3 gene.

CONCLUSIONS: Exome analysis of women with recurrent embryo arrest successfully identifies genomic variants lethal at the embryonic stage, thus providing a diagnostic tool. However, functional genomics studies and validation in an independent cohort of patients with preimplantation embryo arrest phenotype and of different ethnicity is required to corroborate these findings. The generation of polygenic models will also further contribute to increasing discovery rate and to the development of more general and
powerful predictive models for this phenotype.
